---
title: 'i like - love you'
date: 2017-05-09
permalink: /posts/2017/05/ilikelovyou/
excerpt: "We always hear these two terms which are used interchangeably. But they have two different meanings. In the present context one could feel that the words might have lost its meaning. We see both the words used millions and millions of times. And i feel the true meanings might as well actually be lost to many. Its a time where we find love in every corner and likes, well no need to mention the thousands, millions of likes on social media."
tags:
  - Thoughts
---

We always hear these two terms which are used interchangeably. But they have two different meanings. In the present context one could feel that the words might have lost its meaning. We see both the words used millions and millions of times. And i feel the true meanings might as well actually be lost to many. Its a time where we find love in every corner and likes, well no need to mention the thousands, millions of likes on social media.

Its hard to distinguish the two words, they both do have their similarities. If we can simply distinguish it would be easy right. Now with the added emoji's we can like posts or react with love. So like's are something main stream and love is just a reaction used in social media. I feel its never a reaction, rather a feeling but maybe a chemical reaction in scientific terms. We fall in love, its hard to react with love. Today we don't put much thought into it when we use the words, the deep meaning the word possesses diminishes.

People say " i love this. i love that you. i love you. " But are they actually meaning it. Do they mean or is it just the commonality which we see today. They might actually be referring to "i like this. i like that. i like you" thus the importance of understanding the true meaning and be meaningful when you use it.

Its something tricky to understand. Since a feeling like love could be hard to explain. Many would have gone through the questions themselves and stuck to understand whether he/she is in love or not. But i think the most accurate distinguish would be " whether he/she is in love or whether they just like the person." People get into trouble due to their inability to understand it. They think they are in love when they actually like the person and end up in misery or the contrary where we think we just likes the person and never do anything about it.

I am no expert in the field and do not have any advice on the topic, but rather would like to focus on this decision which we all tend to mix up and highlight the importance of understanding it. But if you think through a bit you will understand the difference of it. So the next time when you use it you will clearly mean it.
